[Music]
they have the best view from their
office
travel all over the world and shuttle
millions of people from one place to
another
they're taxi drivers no wait they're
commercial airline pilots
though they still get to taxi on the
runway pilots have to be experienced
follow strict requirements and still it
takes them ages to take the captaincy
these professionals are bound to have
some exciting secrets
and they do number one the captain has a
lot of authority
as soon as the plane's doors are locked
the captain has the power to give
orders arrest people and even write
fines if needed
if a passenger is making a scene in the
jet way the pilot has the right to
prohibit them from going on board
and can take off without the
troublemaker
two pilots are proud of their landing
technique
a lot of in-flight procedures are
computer assisted these days
that's why pilots appreciate landing so
much those are almost completely human
operated
and require a lot of skills ever heard
them saying
if you want to compliment your pilot
tell them how smooth the landing was
well that's true three
they can only fly one type of aircraft
at a time
in most countries pilots are certified
to fly a specific airplane model
and they have extensive training exactly
on this model
if they want to get a license to command
a different plane type
they have to go through additional
training it typically lasts for about
two to three months
and includes theory mock-up flights and
simulator training
4. their commutes are spectacular
if a pilot has a possibility to catch
flights connecting them to the airline's
base airport
they can live literally anywhere in the
country but the drawbacks can be
impressive
first such long commutes take up tons of
pilots unpaid time
second every time they have to look for
free seats
which are usually only available on
crack of dawn flights
if a suitable flight is completely
booked a pilot will be simply left
behind
that's why they often have to leave home
the day before their scheduled flight
lots of pilots move closer to the base
airport and simply drive to work
5. they might let you look around
if you're terrified of flying your pilot
might let you
sneak a peek into the cockpit to
distract you and make you feel better
about 90 percent of pilots say they
wouldn't normally say no to an adult
passenger or a kid asking for a
lightning quick
room tour 6. the autopilot can't replace
pilots
another widespread myth is that once the
plane takes off
pilots can sit back and enjoy the ride
the autopilot will do its job
during the flight there can be
communications issues route changes
navigational problems pilots always have
some task at hand
for example monitoring fuel burn
watching for other planes and whatnot
especially what not boy i had a whole
day of what not the other day
even though pilots don't have their
hands on the wheel as often as before
they're still in control of everything
that's happening with the plane
seven education is expensive
becoming a commercial airline pilot will
cost you thousands of dollars
whether it is sixty thousand or one
hundred thousand dollars
depends on the flight school where you
train and the type of your training
hours of flight experience also cost a
fortune and you need a lot of them
in general to get a commercial pilot
certificate you need at least 250 flight
hours under your belt
but some airlines don't hire pilots
without fifteen hundred to four
thousand hours of flight experience
eight they can fly for free but
it doesn't mean that they can fly
anywhere they want at any convenient
time
a pilot has the same benefits as anyone
else working for the airline
just like other employees they have to
wait for a standby
which means an available seat on the
needed flight
most pilots don't want their vacation to
rely on such an unpredictable situation
and pay for their tickets nine
pilots have a lot of exams every 12
months
pilots have to complete something like a
driving test only in an airplane
every year or half a year depending on
their age
pilots have to pass a medical
examination
every six months pilots have their
emergency procedure simulator assessment
besides those there is also technical
testing
aviation security and dangerous goods
examination training
and so on if a pilot fails any of these
they get removed from their flight
duties 10.
co-pilots are just as important there's
a misleading belief that co-pilots are
either trainees or subordinates
that do nothing but wait for the captain
to give them orders
this opinion couldn't be further from
the truth co-pilots are fully qualified
professionals who can easily fly the
plane
their job title isn't about skills it's
about seniority
pilots and co-pilots usually take turns
if one of them flies the plane for
example to singapore
the other will fly it back to sydney 11.
pilots and co-pilots have different
meals the reason for this precaution is
very simple
imagine both pilots eating the same dish
and getting
food poisoning in this case neither of
them will be able to control the plane
if they still want to have the same dish
and won't agree to have anything else
there's a safety net pilots have their
meals at a different time
if one pilot ate the dish and still
feels okay several hours later
the other pilot can brave their meal as
well it's also
much safer to fly the plane when one of
the pilots is ready for action
well there's no cargo compartment
underneath the plane
after watching different action films
many passengers imagine that at any
moment
their pilot might open a secret hatch in
the floor and go check the cargo
compartment
in reality airplanes don't have extra
layers filled with bags suitcases
and pet carriers even if there are some
accessible alcoves
under the flight deck or cabin they're
too tiny to walk inside freely
13. they're mostly as clueless in
airports as you are
if you see a pilot walking in front of
you at the airport
don't even bother asking them for
directions to your gate bathroom or the
cheapest coffee shop
unless it's their base airport pilots
know little about places they fly
through if you need information
better ask an airport staff member 14.
it can be a bit boring in the cockpit
most brand name airlines prohibit their
pilots from taking to the cockpit
anything that can entertain them during
the flight
no reading magazines and books or doing
a jigsaw puzzle
pretty much anything that can
potentially distract pilots from
controlling the plane
and even though experts recommend
listening to music when you fly
it's not about pilots they have to stay
in touch with ground controllers all the
time
the only thing they're legally allowed
to do to pass the time
is to talk with each other and the rest
of the flight crew
15. pilots ignore turbulence
they often just shake their heads
listening to passengers exaggerating the
danger they were in
during particularly severe turbulence
pilots know that there's a thing way
more dangerous than any turbulence
it's an updraft that's a big air mass
part of a storm or some other weather
phenomenon moving
upward pilots don't see updrafts on
their radars at night
and when a plane hits one it's like
driving over a huge speed bump at 500
miles per hour
an updraft is also extremely treacherous
because it can push an aircraft
upward to dangerous altitudes
16. they're often exhausted
lots of airlines are implementing new
rules that could allow pilots to rest
more
but it's often still not enough some
pilots admit that they don't even have
time to get some food between their
flights
let alone sleep hey if you learned
something new today
then give the video a like and share
with a friend
and here are some other videos i think
you'll enjoy just click to the left
or right and remember stay on the bright
side of life